# GCoder

GCoder geocodes stuff using the Google Geocoding API (V3) and caches the
results somewhere, if you want. _(Need something more bulldozer-like? Check out
[Geokit](http://github.com/andre/geokit-gem).)_

    # Bon Usage

    require 'gcoder'

    G = GCoder.connect(:storage => :heap)

    G['dundas and sorauren', :region => :ca] # ... it geocodes!
    G[[41.87, -74.16]]                       # ... and reverse-geocodes!

The returned value is the 'results' portion of the Google Geocoding API
[response](http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/geocoding/#JSON).

## Configuration Options

These can be applied globally by setting `GCoder.config` or on a per-connection
basis by passing them to `GCoder.connect`.

### `:append`

Specifies a string to append to the end of all queries.

### `:region`

Tells the Geocoder to favour results in a specific region. More info
[here](http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/geocoding/#RegionCodes).

### `:language`

By default this is whatever Google thinks it is, you can set it to something
if you'd like. More info
[here](http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/geocoding/#GeocodingRequests).

### `:bounds`

Specifies a bounding box in which to favour results from. Described as an array
of two latitude / longitude pairs. The first describes the Northeast corner of
the box and the second describes the Southwest corner of the box. Here is an
example input:

    [[50.09, -94.88], [41.87, -74.16]]

More info [here](http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/geocoding/#Viewports).

### `:client`

To access the special features of Google Maps API Premier, you must provide a
client ID. All client IDs begin with a gme- prefix.

### `:storage`

Defines the storage adapter to use for caching results from the geocoder to
limit unnecessary throughput. See "Storage Adapters" below for more information.

### `:storage_config`

Passed on to the selected adapter as configuration options. See
"Storage Adapters" below for more information.

## Storage Adapters

GCoder comes with two adapters: `:heap`, and `:redis`. You can check out
`lib/gcoder/storage.rb` for examples of how these are implemented. You can
select either of these, or pass `nil` (or `false`) as the `:storage` option to
disable caching of results.

 * `:storage => nil` - Disable caching (default.)
 * `:storage => :heap` - Saves cached values in an in-memory Hash.
 * `:storage => :redis` - Saves cached values within Redis.
 * `:storage => :rails_cache` - Saves cached values via Rails's cache interface.

### Adapter Configuration

Some adapters have configuration settings that can be passed. The contents of
`:storage_config` are passed to the adapter when it is instantiated.

**HeapAdapter (:heap)**

The Heap adapter has no options.

**RedisAdapter (:redis)**

The Redis adapter has the following options, none are required.

 * `:connection` - Passed to `Redis.connect`.
 * `:keyspace` - Prefixed to all keys generated by GCoder.
 * `:key_ttl` - A time-to-live in seconds before cached results expire.

### Roll Your Own Adapter

Making your own adapter is pretty easy. Your adapter needs to respond to four
instance methods: `connect`, `set`, `get`, and `clear`. Let's make an adapter
for Sequel.

    class SequelAdapter < GCoder::Storage::Adapter
      def connect
        @db = Sequel.connect(config[:connection])
        @table_name = (config[:table_name] || :gcoder_results)
      end

      # The methods `nkey` and `nval` are used to "normalize" keys and values,
      # respectively. You are encouraged to use them.
      def set(key, value)
        if get(key)
          table.filter(:id => nkey(key)).update(:value => nval(value))
        else
          table.insert(:id => nkey(key), :value => nval(value))
        end
      end

      def get(key)
        if (row = table.filter(:id => nkey(key)).first)
          row[:value]
        else
          nil
        end
      end

      def clear
        table.delete_all
      end

      private

      def table
        @db[@table_name]
      end
    end

    GCoder::Storage.register(:sequel, SequelAdapter)

Now we can use our adapter as a caching layer by specifying it like this:

    G = GCoder.connect \
      :storage => :sequel,
      :storage_config => {
        :connection => 'sqlite://geo.db',
        :table_name => :locations
      }

## Authors

 * Carsten Nielsen
 * Christos Pappas (Added support for Google Maps API Premier and Rails.cache
   adapter.)

## Notes

Tested with Ruby 1.9.2 (MRI) and nothing else, fork it. See
[LICENSE](http://github.com/heycarsten/gcoder/blob/master/LICENSE) for details
about that jazz.
